intel_debug: introduction: Update default IPC4 topology path with exa… (#482)
thesofproject/sof-docs: getting_started/intel_debug/introduction.rst

     - CONFIG = topology variant needed for detected hardware configuration
   * - Tiger Lake and newer
     - IPC4
     - /lib/firmware/intel/sof-ipc4-tplg/PLAT/sof-CONFIG.tplg
     - CONFIG = topology variant needed for detected hardware configuration

Practical notes on IPC4 deployment
 - In practice the topology files should be grouped by generations and platforms should be symlinked to the matching generation

>  - For compatibility reasons for **Meteor Lake**'s ``/lib/firmware/intel/sof-ace-tplg`` must be symlinked to ``/lib/firmware/intel/sof-ipc4-tplg/ACE1``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - For compatibility reasons with respect to **Meteor Lake**, ``/lib/firmware/intel/sof-ace-tplg`` must be symlinked to ``/lib/firmware/intel/sof-ipc4-tplg/ACE1``
```

::

   .
   └── intel
       ├── sof-ace-tplg -> sof-ipc4-tplg/ACE1
       └── sof-ipc4-tplg
           ├── ACE1
           │   ├── sof-*.tplg
           │   ├── ...
           │   └── sof-*.tplg
           ├── ACE2 -> ACE1
           ├── adl -> CAVS2.5
           ├── adl-n -> CAVS2.5
           ├── adl-s -> CAVS2.5
           ├── arl -> ACE1
           ├── arl-s -> ACE1
           ├── CAVS2.5
           │   ├── sof-*.tplg
           │   ├── ...
           │   └── sof-*.tplg
           ├── ehl -> CAVS2.5
           ├── lnl -> ACE2
           ├── mtl -> ACE1
           ├── rpl -> CAVS2.5
           ├── rpl-s -> CAVS2.5
           ├── tgl -> CAVS2.5
           └── tgl-h -> CAVS2.5

> 

Reviewer 2: Sorry @ujfalusi, this list looks too exhaustive and to some extent more confusing than the initial naming.

Apart from naming conventions that can be argued on forever, what is wrong with the existing layout and can we not keep sof-ace-tplg for MTL/LNL, and change the layout as needed for future platforms?

Is there really anything broken with the current layout for MTL/LNL?

Author: > Sorry @ujfalusi, this list looks too exhaustive and to some extent more confusing than the initial naming.

I have put this to draft as imho https://github.com/thesofproject/sof/pull/8712 would scale correctly without complexity.
 
> Apart from naming conventions that can be argued on forever, what is wrong with the existing layout 

Right, so how does things looks **today** with linux-firmware and sof-firmware installed?
```bash
# cd /lib/firmware/intel/
/lib/firmware/intel# ls -l | grep -E 'avs|sof'
drwxr-xr-x 5 root root   4096 20.11. 03:52 avs
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     26 11.12. 18:21 dsp_fw_bxtn.bin.zst -> avs/apl/dsp_basefw.bin.zst
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     26 11.12. 18:21 dsp_fw_cnl.bin.zst -> avs/cnl/dsp_basefw.bin.zst
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     26 11.12. 18:21 dsp_fw_glk.bin.zst -> avs/apl/dsp_basefw.bin.zst
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     26 11.12. 18:21 dsp_fw_kbl.bin.zst -> avs/skl/dsp_basefw.bin.zst
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     26 11.12. 18:21 dsp_fw_release.bin.zst -> avs/skl/dsp_basefw.bin.zst
drwxr-xr-x 4 root root   4096  2. 1. 14:23 sof
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root   4096  2. 1. 14:23 sof-ace-tplg
drwxr-xr-x 3 root root   4096 21.11. 17:37 sof-ipc4
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  20480  2. 1. 14:23 sof-tplg
```
The IPC3 firmware files are under `sof` and the corresponding topology files are under `sof-tplg`
The IPC4 firmware files are under `sof-ipc4` and the corresponding topology files are under `sof-ace-tplg`

> and can we not keep sof-ace-tplg for MTL/LNL, and change the layout as needed for future platforms?

Yes, we can think _after_ a new IPC4 architecture is released to public on where it is going to end up, my aim with https://github.com/thesofproject/sof/pull/8712 is to avoid that completely.
Bu let's say we release CAV2.5 files, the kernel now follows the sof-docs specification so CAVS2.5 will expect firmware files under `sof-ipc4` and the corresponding topology files under `sof-ipc4-tplg`. Then we release other platforms for a new architecture, likely colliding with existing "generic" topology files (sof-hda-generic-2/4ch), so:
| Directory     | Content |
| ---      | ---       |
| sof | IPC3 firmware files |
| sof-tplg | IPC3 topology files |
| sof-ipc4 | IPC4 firmware files (ACE1/ACE2/CAVS2.5/some_arch/some_other_arch) |
| sof-ace-tplg | IPC4 topology files (Legacy ACE1/ACE2) |
| sof-ipc4-tplg | IPC4 topology files (for CAV2.5 platforms) |
| sof-some_arch-tplg | IPC4 topology files (for some_arch only) |
| sof-some_other_arch-tplg | IPC4 topology files (for some_other_arch only) |

> Is there really anything broken with the current layout for MTL/LNL?

Apart from not scalable and going to be a confusing mess over time, no, nothing.
But let's say we will transition to a new and better IPC version, let's say IPC5 and we are fortunate that ACE can be supported by it. Then what? How `sof-ace-tplg` is _not_ for IPC5 but only IPC4?
The new IPC version is hypothetical, just for highlighting the non scalability of what we have.

What is wrong with my proposal?
| Directory     | Content |
| ---      | ---       |
| sof | IPC3 firmware files |
| sof-tplg | IPC3 topology files |
| sof-ipc4 | IPC4 firmware files (ACE1/ACE2/CAVS2.5/some_arch/some_other_arch) |
| sof-ipc4-tplg | IPC4 topology files (ACE1/ACE2/CAVS2.5/some_arch/some_other_arch) |
| sof-ace-tplg | symlink to sof-ipc4-tplg for backwards compatibility (to be kept for few years) |

Author: > "sof-ace-tplg symlink to sof-ipc4-tplg for backwards compatibility (to be kept for few years)"
> 
> To be clear, we have NO PLANS to change the IPC4 default path in the kernel files, do we? That would mean that the sof-ace-tplg path will have to be maintained _forever_

I would change the path in kernel after the second sof-bin release with the sof-ipc4-tplg + sof-ace-tplg symlink.
Distros update the sof-firmware and in case of issue we always ask for updated sof-bin.

> We also have NO PLANS to change the IPC type for MTL/LNL, so I am not sure that the scalability issue is a problem we need to solve.

That was hypothetical note.

> What we do know is that we have to avoid a conflict for the next generations, but that doesn't mean we need to align and risk breaking existing stuff with late changes.

We can have a consistent location with minimal effort today, tomorrow it is not going to be possible and we will have an inconsistent mess to manage for eternity.

Reviewer 2: why do you need to check the path in kernel? That's asking for trouble with multiple versions of the kernel pointing to different locations.

Also why would we need to track all versions of SOC at the topology level? We should only do so if there's a good reason where the compatibility with previous solution needs to be broken.

My counter proposal would be

sof-ipc4-tplg/
   all existing cavs stuff without any further redirections
   ace/  all topologies for MTL and LNL (i.e this covers ace1.x and ace2.x)
   aceN/ topologies for the first 'N' version that is no longer compatible with the 'ace' topologies
sof-ace-tplg/ symlink for sof-ipc4-tplg/ace
   
We have a similar handling for the PCI devices, we group them in the same files until we can't because they require different handling. No need to track each SOC separately if we can avoid doing so.
